Adding Event Hubs troubleshooting guide (#28609)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-java: sdk/eventhubs/azure-messaging-eventhubs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md

  - [Enable AMQP transport logging](#enable-amqp-transport-logging)
  - [Reduce logging](#reduce-logging)
- [Troubleshoot EventProducerAsyncClient/EventProducerClient issues](#troubleshoot-eventproducerasyncclienteventproducerclient-issues)
  - [Cannot set multiple partition keys for events in EventDataBatch](#cannot-set-multiple-partition-keys-for-events-in-eventdatabatch)
  - [Setting partition key on EventData is not set in Kafka consumer](#setting-partition-key-on-eventdata-is-not-set-in-kafka-consumer)
- [Troubleshoot EventProcessorClient issues](#troubleshoot-eventprocessorclient-issues)
  - [412 precondition failures when checkpointing](#412-precondition-failures-when-checkpointing)
  - [Partition ownership changes a lot](#partition-ownership-changes-a-lot)
  - ["...current receiver 'nil' with epoch '0' is getting disconnected"](#current-receiver-nil-with-epoch-0-is-getting-disconnected)
  - [High CPU usage](#high-cpu-usage)
  - [Processor client stops receiving](#processor-client-stops-receiving)
  - [Migrate from legacy to new client library](#migrate-from-legacy-to-new-client-library)
- [Get additional help](#get-additional-help)

## Handle Event Hubs exceptions

> All Event Hubs exceptions are wrapped in an [AmqpException][AmqpException].  They often have an underlying AMQP error code which specifies whether an error is retryable or not.  For retryable errors (ie. "amqp:connection:forced" or "amqp:link:detach-forced"), the client libraries will attempt to recover from these errors based on the [retry options][AmqpRetryOptions] specified when instantiating the client.  To configure retry options, follow the sample [Publish events to specific partition][PublishEventsToSpecificPartition].  If the error is non-retryable, there is some configuration issue that the customer needs to resolve.

Reviewer: nit, `"amqp:link:detach-forced"` rendered as "amqp:link:detach-forced"

Reviewer: there is no `[retry options][AmqpRetryOptions]` link

The recommended way to solve the specific exception the AMQP exception represents is to follow the

> [Event Hubs Messaging Exceptions][EventHubsMessagingExceptions] guidance.

Reviewer: `[EventHubsMessagingExceptions]` link is .NET?

page title is "Event Hubs messaging exceptions - .NET (legacy)"

Author: Yeah.. they wrote the exceptions thinking about .NET but the error messages and resolution are language agnostic.

The full error message looks something like:

> New receiver 'nil' with higher epoch of '0' is created hence current receiver 'nil' with epoch '0'
> is getting disconnected. If you are recreating the receiver, make sure a higher epoch is used.
> TrackingId:<GUID>, SystemTracker:<NAMESPACE>:eventhub:<EVENT_HUB_NAME>|<CONSUMER_GROUP>,
> Timestamp:2022-01-01T12:00:00}"}

### High CPU usage

* Usually because too many partitions are owned.
* Recommend no more than 3 partitions to every 1 CPU core; better to start with 1.5 partitions to each core and test increasing

### Processor client stops receiving

Often this is not enough information to determine why the exception occurred.  For the team to determine the cause, we need to ask for the following information:

* Event Hub environment

>   * How many partitions?

Reviewer 2: There are some other questions I may ask them:
What is max heap set (-Xmx)?
What is the average size of each event?
Is processor always busy?
What is the location of the event hub and application?

The recommended way to solve the specific exception the AMQP exception represents is to follow the
[Event Hubs Messaging Exceptions][EventHubsMessagingExceptions] guidance.

### Find relevant information in exception messages

An [AmqpException][AmqpException] contains three fields which describe the error.

* **getErrorCondition**: The underlying AMQP error. A description of the errors can be found in the [AmqpErrorCondition][AmqpErrorCondition] javadocs or the OASIS AMQP 1.0 spec.
* **isTransient**: Whether or not trying to perform the same operation is possible.  SDK clients apply the retry policy when the error is transient.
* **getErrorContext**: Information about where the AMQP error originated.
  * [LinkErrorContext][LinkErrorContext]: Errors that occur in either the send/receive link.
  * [SessionErrorContext][SessionErrorContext]: Errors that occur in the session.
  * [AmqpErrorContext][AmqpErrorContext]: Errors that occur in the connection or a general AMQP error.

### Commonly encountered exceptions

> #### amqp\:connection\:forced and amqp\:link\:detach-forced

Reviewer 3: The service will also boot connections every 30 minutes, whether idle or not... not sure if that's significant in this context, as if the client is active, nobody should notice.   However, it may appear in the logs?

Author: I had no idea it did that... hmm.

When the connection to Event Hubs is idle, the service will disconnect the client after some time.  This is not a problem as the clients will re-establish a connection with the service.  More information for users is in the [AMQP troubleshooting documentation][AmqpTroubleshooting].

## Permission issues

An `AmqpException` with an [`AmqpErrorCondition`][AmqpErrorCondition] of "amqp:unauthorized-access" means that the customer's credentials do not allow for them to perform the action (receiving or sending) with Event Hubs.

* [Double check you have the correct connection string][GetConnectionString]
* [Ensure your SAS token is generated correctly][AuthorizeSAS]

[Troubleshoot authentication and authorization issues with Event Hubs][troubleshoot_authentication_authorization] lists other possible solutions.

## Connectivity issues

### Timeout when connecting to service

* Verify that the connection string or fully qualified domain name specified when creating the client is correct.  [Get an Event Hubs connection string][GetConnectionString] demonstrates how to acquire a connection string.

> * Check the firewall and port permissions in your hosting environment and that the AMQP ports 5671 and 5762 are open.

Author: I have it in this line:

> * For more information about troubleshooting network connectivity is at [Event Hubs troubleshooting][EventHubsTroubleshooting]

To use the same AMQP connection when creating multiple clients, you can use the `EventHubClientBuilder.shareConnection()` flag, hold a reference to that `EventHubClientBuilder`, and create new clients from that same builder instance.

### Connect using an IoT connection string

Because translating a connection string requires querying the IoT Hub service, the Event Hubs client library cannot use it directly.  The [IoTConnectionString.java][IoTConnectionString] sample describes how to query IoT Hub to translate an IoT connection string into one that can be used with Event Hubs.

Further reading:
* [Control access to IoT Hub using Shared Access Signatures][IoTHubSAS]
* [Read device-to-cloud messages from the built-in endpoint][IoTEventHubEndpoint]

### Cannot add components to the connection string

The legacy Event Hub clients allowed customers to add components to the connection string retrieved from the portal.  The legacy clients are in packages [com.microsoft.azure:azure-eventhubs][MavenAzureEventHubs] and [com.microsoft.azure:azure-eventhubs-eph][MavenAzureEventHubsEPH].

> #### Adding "TransportType=AmqpWebSockets"

Author: Fair enough. I shortened it.

## Troubleshoot EventProcessorClient issues

### 412 precondition failures when checkpointing

412 precondition errors occur when the client tries to take or renew ownership of a partition, but the local version of the checkpoint is outdated.  This occurs when another processor instance steals partition ownership.  See [Partition ownership changes a lot](#partition-ownership-changes-a-lot) for more information.

### Partition ownership changes a lot

When the number of EventProcessorClient instances changes (i.e. added or removed), the running instances try to load-balance partitions between themselves.  The default balancing is greedy, so an EventProcessorClient will take as many partitions at once to reach a balanced state.  As additional nodes are added, they may steal these partitions to balance themselves out.  If this is not the case, a GitHub issue with logs and a repro should be filed.

> ### "...current receiver 'nil' with epoch '0' is getting disconnected"

Author: Good call. I diffed it.

- [Troubleshoot EventProducerAsyncClient/EventProducerClient issues](#troubleshoot-eventproducerasyncclienteventproducerclient-issues)
  - [Cannot set multiple partition keys for events in EventDataBatch](#cannot-set-multiple-partition-keys-for-events-in-eventdatabatch)
  - [Setting partition key on EventData is not set in Kafka consumer](#setting-partition-key-on-eventdata-is-not-set-in-kafka-consumer)
- [Troubleshoot EventProcessorClient issues](#troubleshoot-eventprocessorclient-issues)
  - [412 precondition failures when using an event processor](#412-precondition-failures-when-using-an-event-processor)
  - [Partition ownership changes frequently](#partition-ownership-changes-frequently)
  - ["...current receiver '<RECEIVER_NAME>' with epoch '0' is getting disconnected"](#current-receiver-receiver_name-with-epoch-0-is-getting-disconnected)
  - [High CPU usage](#high-cpu-usage)
  - [Processor client stops receiving](#processor-client-stops-receiving)
  - [Migrate from legacy to new client library](#migrate-from-legacy-to-new-client-library)
- [Get additional help](#get-additional-help)
  - [Filing GitHub issues](#filing-github-issues)

## Handle Event Hubs exceptions

> All Event Hubs exceptions are wrapped in an [AmqpException][AmqpException].  They often have an underlying AMQP error code which specifies whether an error is retryable or not.  For retryable errors (ie. `amqp:connection:forced` or `amqp:link:detach-forced`), the client libraries will attempt to recover from these errors based on the [retry options][AmqpRetryOptions] specified when instantiating the client.  To configure retry options, follow the sample [Publish events to specific partition][PublishEventsToSpecificPartition].  If the error is non-retryable, there is some configuration issue that needs to be resolved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All Event Hubs exceptions are wrapped in an [AmqpException][AmqpException].  They often have an underlying AMQP error code which specifies whether an error should be retried.  For retryable errors (ie. `amqp:connection:forced` or `amqp:link:detach-forced`), the client libraries will attempt to recover from these errors based on the [retry options][AmqpRetryOptions] specified when instantiating the client.  To configure retry options, follow the sample [Publish events to specific partition][PublishEventsToSpecificPartition].  If the error is non-retryable, there is some configuration issue that needs to be resolved.
```

The recommended way to solve the specific exception the AMQP exception represents is to follow the
[Event Hubs Messaging Exceptions][EventHubsMessagingExceptions] guidance.

### Find relevant information in exception messages

An [AmqpException][AmqpException] contains three fields which describe the error.

* **getErrorCondition**: The underlying AMQP error. A description of the errors can be found in the [AmqpErrorCondition][AmqpErrorCondition] javadocs or the [OASIS AMQP 1.0 spec][AmqpSpec].
* **isTransient**: Whether or not trying to perform the same operation is possible.  SDK clients apply the retry policy when the error is transient.
* **getErrorContext**: Information about where the AMQP error originated.
  * [LinkErrorContext][LinkErrorContext]: Errors that occur in either the send/receive link.
  * [SessionErrorContext][SessionErrorContext]: Errors that occur in the session.
  * [AmqpErrorContext][AmqpErrorContext]: Errors that occur in the connection or a general AMQP error.

### Commonly encountered exceptions

#### `amqp:connection:forced` and `amqp:link:detach-forced`

> When the connection to Event Hubs is idle, the service will disconnect the client after some time.  This is not a problem as the clients will re-establish a connection with the service.  More information for users is in the [AMQP troubleshooting documentation][AmqpTroubleshooting].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the connection to Event Hubs is idle, the service will disconnect the client after some time.  This is not a problem as the clients will re-establish a connection when a service operation is requested.  More information can be found in the [AMQP troubleshooting documentation][AmqpTroubleshooting].
```

Further reading:
* [Control access to IoT Hub using Shared Access Signatures][IoTHubSAS]
* [Read device-to-cloud messages from the built-in endpoint][IoTEventHubEndpoint]

### Cannot add components to the connection string

The legacy Event Hub clients allowed customers to add components to the connection string retrieved from the portal.  The legacy clients are in packages [com.microsoft.azure:azure-eventhubs][MavenAzureEventHubs] and [com.microsoft.azure:azure-eventhubs-eph][MavenAzureEventHubsEPH].  The current generation supports connection strings only in the form published by the Azure portal.

#### Adding "TransportType=AmqpWebSockets"

To use web sockets, see the sample [PublishEventsWithSocketsAndProxy.java][PublishEventsWithWebSocketsAndProxy].

#### Adding "Authentication=Managed Identity"

To authenticate with Managed Identity, see the sample [PublishEventsWithAzureIdentity.java][PublishEventsWithAzureIdentity].

> For more information about our identity library, check out our [Authentication and the Azure SDK][AuthenticationAndTheAzureSDK] blog post.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information about the `Azure.Identity` library, check out our [Authentication and the Azure SDK][AuthenticationAndTheAzureSDK] blog post.
```

## Enable and configure logging

The Azure SDK for Java offers a consistent logging story to help troubleshoot application errors and expedite their resolution.  The logs produced will capture the flow of an application before reaching the terminal state to help locate the root issue.  View the [logging][Logging] wiki for guidance about enabling logging.

In addition to enabling logging, setting the log level to `VERBOSE` or `DEBUG` provides insights into the library's state.  Below are sample log4j2 and logback configurations to reduce the excessive messages when verbose logging is enabled.

### Configuring Log4J 2

> 1.  Add the dependencies in your pom.xml using ones from the [logging sample pom.xml][LoggingPom] under the "Dependencies required for Log4j2" section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Add the dependencies in your pom.xml using ones from the [logging sample pom.xml][LoggingPom] under the "Dependencies required for Log4j2" section.
```

> 2.Add [log4j2.xml][log4j2] to your `src/main/resources`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Add [log4j2.xml][log4j2] to your `src/main/resources`.
```

### Configuring logback

> 1.  Add the dependencies in your pom.xml using ones from the [logging sample pom.xml][LoggingPom] under the "Dependencies required for logback" section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Add the dependencies in your pom.xml using ones from the [logging sample pom.xml][LoggingPom] under the "Dependencies required for logback" section.
```

> Timestamp:2022-01-01T12:00:00}"}

This error is expected when load balancing occurs after EventProcessorClient instances are added or removed.  Load balancing is an ongoing process.  When using the BlobCheckpointStore with your consumer, every ~30 seconds (by default), the consumer will check to see which consumers have a claim for each partition, then run some logic to determine whether it needs to 'steal' a partition from another consumer.  The service mechanism used to assert exclusive ownership over a partition is known as the [Epoch][Epoch].

However, if no instances are being added or removed, there is an underlying issue that should be addressed.  See [Partition ownership changes a lot](#partition-ownership-changes-a-lot) for additional information and [Filing GitHub issues](#filing-github-issues).

### High CPU usage

High CPU usage is usually because an instance owns too many partitions.  We recommend no more than three partitions for every 1 CPU core; better to start with 1.5 partitions for each CPU core and test increasing the number of partitions owned.

### Processor client stops receiving

> Customers often run the processor client for days on end.  Sometimes, they notice that EventProcessorClient is not processing one or more partitions.  Usually, this is not enough information to determine why the exception occurred.  The EventProcessorClient stopping is the symptom of an underlying cause (i.e. race condition) that occurred while trying to recover from a transient error.  Please see [Filing Github issues](#filing-github-issues) for the information we require.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The processor client often is continually running in a host application for days on end.  Sometimes, they notice that EventProcessorClient is not processing one or more partitions.  Usually, this is not enough information to determine why the exception occurred.  The EventProcessorClient stopping is the symptom of an underlying cause (i.e. race condition) that occurred while trying to recover from a transient error.  Please see [Filing Github issues](#filing-github-issues) for the information we require.
```

  - [Enable AMQP transport logging](#enable-amqp-transport-logging)
  - [Reduce logging](#reduce-logging)
- [Troubleshoot EventProducerAsyncClient/EventProducerClient issues](#troubleshoot-eventproducerasyncclienteventproducerclient-issues)
  - [Cannot set multiple partition keys for events in EventDataBatch](#cannot-set-multiple-partition-keys-for-events-in-eventdatabatch)
  - [Setting partition key on EventData is not set in Kafka consumer](#setting-partition-key-on-eventdata-is-not-set-in-kafka-consumer)
- [Troubleshoot EventProcessorClient issues](#troubleshoot-eventprocessorclient-issues)
  - [412 precondition failures when checkpointing](#412-precondition-failures-when-checkpointing)
  - [Partition ownership changes a lot](#partition-ownership-changes-a-lot)
  - ["...current receiver 'nil' with epoch '0' is getting disconnected"](#current-receiver-nil-with-epoch-0-is-getting-disconnected)
  - [High CPU usage](#high-cpu-usage)
  - [Processor client stops receiving](#processor-client-stops-receiving)
  - [Migrate from legacy to new client library](#migrate-from-legacy-to-new-client-library)
- [Get additional help](#get-additional-help)

## Handle Event Hubs exceptions

> All Event Hubs exceptions are wrapped in an [AmqpException][AmqpException].  They often have an underlying AMQP error code which specifies whether an error is retryable or non-retryable.  For retryable errors (ie. "amqp:connection:forced" or "amqp:link:detach-forced"), the client libraries will recover from these errors based on the [_retry options_][AmqpRetryOptions] set when instantiating the client.  To configure retry options, follow the sample [Publish events to specific partition][PublishEventsToSpecificPartition].  If the error is non-retryable, there is some configuration issue that the customer needs to resolve.

Reviewer 4: Thoughts on ending this with `there is a configuration issue that needs to be resolved.`?

> All Event Hubs exceptions are wrapped in an [AmqpException][AmqpException].  They often have an underlying AMQP error code which specifies whether an error is retryable or non-retryable.  For retryable errors (ie. "amqp:connection:forced" or "amqp:link:detach-forced"), the client libraries will recover from these errors based on the [_retry options_][AmqpRetryOptions] set when instantiating the client.  To configure retry options, follow the sample [Publish events to specific partition][PublishEventsToSpecificPartition].  If the error is non-retryable, there is some configuration issue that the customer needs to resolve.

Reviewer 5: It looks like there are a few incorreclty formatted/missing links:

```
[_retry options_][AmqpRetryOptions]
[Event Hubs Messaging Exceptions][event_hubs_messaging_exceptions]
```

There might be others, but these jumped out at me. (I usually just do a 'View File' and look for '[').

Author: Good catch!

The recommended way to solve the specific exception the AMQP exception represents is to follow the
[Event Hubs Messaging Exceptions][event_hubs_messaging_exceptions] guidance.

### Find relevant information in exception messages

An [AmqpException][AmqpException] contains 3 fields which describe the error.

> * **getErrorCondition**: The underlying AMQP error. A description of the errors can be found in the [AmqpErrorCondition][AmqpErrorCondition] javadocs or the OASIS AMQP 1.0 spec.

Reviewer 4: This mentioned `AmqpErrorCondition` javadocs but then links to source code, would we rather link to Javadocs directly?

* **isTransient**: Whether or not trying to perform the same operation is possible.  SDK clients apply the retry policy when the error is transient.

> * **getErrorContext**: Information about where the AMQP error originated.

Reviewer 4: Should it be mentioned that the context can be sub-types when it's `LinkErrorContext` or `SessionErrorContext`?

  * [LinkErrorContext][LinkErrorContext]: Errors that occur in either the send/receive link.
  * [SessionErrorContext][SessionErrorContext]: Errors that occur in the session.
  * [AmqpErrorContext][AmqpErrorContext]: Errors that occur in the connection or a general AMQP error.

### Commonly encountered exceptions

#### amqp:connection:forced and amqp:link:detach-forced

> When the connection to Service Bus or Event Hubs is idle, after a period of time, the service will disconnect the client.  This is not a problem as the clients will reestablish a connection with the service. More information: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-amqp-troubleshoot

Reviewer 4: nit: Does Service Bus need to be mentioned here?

second nit: Do we want to use the full URL here or use a decorative link?

Reviewer 5: Along those same lines - I recall @jsquire  has mentioned _different_ limits when it comes to Event Hubs so it might be that the SB limits are not the same?

## Permission issues

An `AmqpException` with an [`AmqpErrorCondition`][AmqpErrorCondition] of "amqp:unauthorized-access" means that the customer's credentials do not allow for them to perform the action (receiving or sending) with Event Hubs.

* [Double check you have the correct connection string][GetConnectionString]
* [Ensure your SAS token is generated correctly][AuthorizeSAS]

Other possible solutions are listed in [Troubleshoot authentication and authorization issues with Event Hubs][troubleshoot_authentication_authorization]

## Connectivity issues

### Timeout when connecting to service

> * Verify that your connection string is correct.

Reviewer 5: This is a really nice list.

I'm assuming, for the connection string, you should just check the `Endpoint=` is correct?

* Check firewall and ports and that the AMQP port 5671 is open.
  * Make sure that the endpoint is allowed through firewall.
* Try using websockets, which connects on port 443. See [Configure web sockets](#configure-web-sockets).
* See if your network is blocking specific IP addresses.
  * [What IP addresses do I need to allow?](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/event-hubs/troubleshooting-guide#what-ip-addresses-do-i-need-to-allow)
* For more information about troubleshooting network connectivity:

>   * https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/troubleshooting-guide

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/event-hubs/troubleshooting-guide
```

### SSL handshake failures

> This error can occur when the proxy is not configured properly.  Ask the customer to test their connection to Event Hubs without using a proxy.

Reviewer 5: Do you also get an AmqpException for these? What kind of condition/code do you get?

### Socket exhaustion errors

> Customers should keep an instance of their Event Hub client as long as possible because by default, the creation of a each client results in creating an AMQP connection which uses a socket.  Additionally, clients inherit from `java.io.Closeable`, so they should be calling `close()` when they are finished.

Reviewer 5: For clarity, the "client" types are actually EventHubConsumer and EventHubProducer?

(in case someone gets confused since some of our messaging offerings _do_ have a top level client).

Also, I think it's unlikely but there's some connection sharing option in your builder, right? Not sure if that complicates things or not.

Reviewer 5: (you do mention the flag below, but I wasn't sure how that affected your earlier guidance)

Author: All of our publicly exposed clients implement Closeable... we'd want them to close anything they create.

To use the same AMQP connection when creating multiple clients, customers can use the `EventHubClientBuilder.shareConnection()` flag, hold a reference to that `EventHubClientBuilder`, and create new clients from that same builder instance.

### Connect using an IoT connection string

> This is not a supported scenario in our current library.  The sample describes how to acquire an IoT connection string which can then be used to instantiate the Event Hub clients: [IoTConnectionString.java][IoTConnectionString]

Reviewer 5: In case someone does like what I do (and just stops reading) it might be worth rephrasing and indicating that "you can't use an IoT connection string directly, it must be converted" or similar.

Reviewer 6: Maybe we include the link to getting an EH compatible link from IoT hub here?

> This is not a supported scenario in our current library.  The sample describes how to acquire an IoT connection string which can then be used to instantiate the Event Hub clients: [IoTConnectionString.java][IoTConnectionString]

Reviewer 3: We want to be sure to position this as "Event Hubs doesn't talk to IoT Hub" by design.   The underlying issue isn't that we removed support, it's that IoT Hub gives you an IoT Hub connection string.

Further reading:
* https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/iot-hub-dev-guide-sas#security-tokens
* https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-net/iothub-connect-to-eventhubs

### Cannot add "TransportType=AmqpWebSockets" to the connection string

> The legacy clients allowed customers to modify the connection string to enable capabilities.  In this case, use web sockets to connect to Event Hubs.  To achieve the same scenario, see [PublishEventsWithSocketsAndProxy.java][PublishEventsWithWebSocketsAndProxy].

Reviewer 5: Maybe at least the package name. The customer might not even realize they're on a legacy client.

> The legacy clients allowed customers to modify the connection string to enable capabilities.  In this case, use web sockets to connect to Event Hubs.  To achieve the same scenario, see [PublishEventsWithSocketsAndProxy.java][PublishEventsWithWebSocketsAndProxy].

Reviewer 5: btw, do we throw an exception in this case? Or do unknown key/value pairs just get ignored (likely)?

> The legacy clients allowed customers to modify the connection string to enable capabilities.  In this case, use web sockets to connect to Event Hubs.  To achieve the same scenario, see [PublishEventsWithSocketsAndProxy.java][PublishEventsWithWebSocketsAndProxy].

Author: An IllegalArgumentException is thrown because it doesn't recognise the parameter.

For more information about our identity library see: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/azure-sdk/authentication-and-the-azure-sdk/

## Enable and configure logging

Azure SDK for Java offers a consistent logging story to help aid in troubleshooting application errors and expedite their resolution. The logs produced will capture the flow of an application before reaching the terminal state to help locate the root issue. View the [logging][Logging] wiki for guidance about enabling logging.

In addition to enabling logging, setting the log level to `VERBOSE` or `DEBUG` provides insights into the library's state.  Below are sample log4j2 and logback configurations to reduce excessive
log messages when verbose logging is enabled.

### Configuring Log4J 2

1. Add the following dependencies in your pom.xml.
    ```xml
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.apache.logging.log4j</groupId>
        <artifactId>log4j-api</artifactId>
        <version>2.14.1</version>

>     </dependency>

Reviewer 4: Do we need a way to keep these versions up-to-date given the number of CVEs Log4j has seen recently so that we don't recommend customers to use vulnerable libraries for logging?

    ```
1. Add [logback.xml][logback] to your `src/main/resources`.

### Enable AMQP transport logging

If enabling client logging is not enough to diagnose your issues.  You can enable logging to a file in the underlying
AMQP library, [Qpid Proton-J][qpid_proton_j_apache].  Qpid Proton-J uses `java.util.logging`. You can enable logging by
create a configuration file with the contents below.  Or set `proton.trace.level=ALL` and whichever configuration options
you want for the `java.util.logging.Handler` implementation.  Implementation classes and their options can be found in
[Java 8 SDK javadoc][java_8_sdk_javadocs].

To trace the AMQP transport frames, set the environment variable: `PN_TRACE_FRM=1`.

#### Sample "logging.properties" file

The configuration file below logs trace output from proton-j to the file "proton-trace.log".

```
handlers=java.util.logging.FileHandler
.level=OFF
proton.trace.level=ALL
java.util.logging.FileHandler.level=ALL
java.util.logging.FileHandler.pattern=proton-trace.log
java.util.logging.FileHandler.formatter=java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter
java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter.format=[%1$tF %1$tr] %3$s %4$s: %5$s %n
```

### Reduce logging

> One way to decrease logging is to change the verbosity.  Another is to add filters that exclude logs from logger names like `com.azure.messaging.eventhubs` or `com.azure.core.amqp`.  Examples of this can be found in the xml files in [Configuring Log4J 2](#configuring-log4j-2) and [Configure logback](#configuring-logback).

Reviewer 5: What logger names would you recommend a customer leave on if they wanted to submit a bug?

## Troubleshoot EventProducerAsyncClient/EventProducerClient issues

### Cannot set multiple partition keys for events in EventDataBatch

When publishing messages, Event Hubs service supports a single partition key for each EventDataBatch.  Customers can consider using the buffered producer client `EventHubBufferedProducerClient` if they want that capability.  Otherwise, they'll have to manage their own batches.

### Setting partition key on EventData is not set in Kafka consumer

> The partition key of the EventHubs event is available in the kafka record headers, the protocol specific key being "x-opt-partition-key" in the header.

Reviewer 4: Should kafka be capitalized here to Kafka?

It is by-design that we don't promote the Kafka message key to be the Event Hubs partition key and nor the reverse because with the same value the Kafka client and the Event Hub client likely send the message to two different partitions.  It might cause some confusion if we set the value in the cross protocol communication case. Exposing the properties with a protocol specific key to the other protocol client should be good enough.

## Troubleshoot EventProcessorClient issues

> ### 412 precondition failures when checkpointing

Author: Good catch. I'll fix that.

412 precondition errors occur when the customer tries to perform checkpointing but the local version of the checkpoint is outdated.  This occurs when partition ownership is stolen by another instance. See [Partition ownership changes a lot](#partition-ownership-changes-a-lot) for more information.

### Partition ownership changes a lot

> This can occur in situations where the network latency is high between storage and the client and ownership is lost to another processor instance because the `PartitionOwnershipExpirationInterval` has elapsed.  Each load balancing interval, the EventProcessorClient looks for ownership records where the expiration interval has elapsed.  If it has, it believes no one is currently processing that partition, so it will take ownership of it and start processing events from the last checkpoint.  In this scenario, it is possible to process events more than once.  One way to mitigate this is to increase `LoadBalancingUpdateInterval` and increase `PartitionOwnershipExpirationInterval`.

Author: I was looking at the code and I don't think Java does it this way: "So long as the owner of that partition has at least one current ownership record for any other partition, it will be counted in the number of processors active in the cluster and everyone will leave its partitions alone."

We can sync up to align on the algorithm.
https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/main/sdk/eventhubs/azure-messaging-eventhubs/src/main/java/com/azure/messaging/eventhubs/PartitionBasedLoadBalancer.java#L198

> This can occur in situations where the network latency is high between storage and the client and ownership is lost to another processor instance because the `PartitionOwnershipExpirationInterval` has elapsed.  Each load balancing interval, the EventProcessorClient looks for ownership records where the expiration interval has elapsed.  If it has, it believes no one is currently processing that partition, so it will take ownership of it and start processing events from the last checkpoint.  In this scenario, it is possible to process events more than once.  One way to mitigate this is to increase `LoadBalancingUpdateInterval` and increase `PartitionOwnershipExpirationInterval`.

Reviewer 3: Removing the expired partitions from the map is good.    Wouldn't [[this](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/main/sdk/eventhubs/azure-messaging-eventhubs/src/main/java/com/azure/messaging/eventhubs/PartitionBasedLoadBalancer.java#L205)] line produce a set that is organized by owner?   So if a processor owns a single partition, it is counted as active and when we do the maths for "how many is my fair share" the owner is included?

### "...current receiver 'nil' with epoch '0' is getting disconnected"

This error is expected when load balancing occurs. Load balancing is indeed an ongoing process.  When using the BlobCheckpointStore with your consumer, every ~30 seconds (by default) the consumer will check to see which consumers have a claim for each partition, then run some logic to determine whether it needs to 'steal' a partition from another consumer.  The service side mechanism used to 'steal' partitions is [Epoch][Epoch].

The full error message looks something like:

> New receiver 'nil' with higher epoch of '0' is created hence current receiver 'nil' with epoch '0'
> is getting disconnected. If you are recreating the receiver, make sure a higher epoch is used.
> TrackingId:<GUID>, SystemTracker:<NAMESPACE>:eventhub:<EVENT_HUB_NAME>|<CONSUMER_GROUP>,
> Timestamp:2022-01-01T12:00:00}"}

### High CPU usage

* Usually because too many partitions are owned.

> * Recommend no more than 3 partitions to every 1 CPU core; better to start with 1.5 partitions to each core and test increasing

Reviewer 4: This feels like it trails off, was there more to this bullet point?

Reviewer 6: Could this be combined into a single bullet about recommendations for starting number of partitions to see CPU usage before ramping up?

### Processor client stops receiving

> Often this is not enough information to determine why the exception occurred. For the team to determine the cause, we need to ask for the following information from the customer:

Reviewer 4: The beginning of this sections feels disjoint, should an introductory sentence be added?

Reviewer 3: +1.    Since we're writing for a customer audience, maybe it would be helpful to mention something like "when opening a GitHub issue or an Azure support case, it would be helpful to have the following available..."

* Event Hub environment
  * How many partitions?
* EventProcessorClient environment
  * What are the specs of the machine(s) processing your Event Hub?
  * How many instances are running?
* Repro code and steps
  * This is important as many times we cannot reproduce the issue in our own environment.
* Logs. We need DEBUG logs, but if that is not possible, INFO at least. Error and warning level logs do not provide enough information. Timespan of at least +/- 10 minutes from when the issue occurred.

### Migrate from legacy to new client library

> The migration guide is here [Migration Guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/main/sdk/eventhubs/azure-messaging-eventhubs/migration-guide.md).  This includes steps on how to migrate checkpoints.

Reviewer 4: Might looks cleaner with a slight re-wording as the first sentence is:

`The migration guide is here Migration Guide.`

```suggestion
The [migration guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/main/sdk/eventhubs/azure-messaging-eventhubs/migration-guide.md) includes steps on how to migrate from the legacy client, and includes how to migrate checkpoints.
```

(Though this still needs a little wordsmithing)

[PublishEventsToSpecificPartition]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/main/sdk/eventhubs/azure-messaging-eventhubs/src/samples/java/com/azure/messaging/eventhubs/PublishEventsToSpecificPartition.java
[PublishEventsWithAzureIdentity]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/main/sdk/eventhubs/azure-messaging-eventhubs/src/samples/java/com/azure/messaging/eventhubs/PublishEventsWithAzureIdentity.java
[PublishEventsWithWebSocketsAndProxy]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/main/sdk/eventhubs/azure-messaging-eventhubs/src/samples/java/com/azure/messaging/eventhubs/PublishEventsWithWebSocketsAndProxy.java
[SUPPORT]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/main/SUPPORT.md

<!-- docs.microsoft.com links -->
[GetConnectionString]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-get-connection-string
[AuthorizeSAS]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/event-hubs/authorize-access-shared-access-signature
[Epoch]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-event-processor-host#epoch
[Logging]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/sdk/logging-overview

> [troubleshoot_authentication_authorization]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/troubleshoot-authentication-authorization

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[troubleshoot_authentication_authorization]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/event-hubs/troubleshoot-authentication-authorization
```
